+++
title = "Hello from Greg!"
slug = "hello-from-greg"
description = "I'm going to actually write newsletters now!"
[taxonomies]
tags = ["archived",]
+++
<p>Hi!</p><p>It’s been a long time. Depending on who’s seeing this, you might have subscribed to this email list only yesterday, or you might have subscribed more than a decade ago (!). This list exists for me to discuss my ongoing game projects - but I hardly ever send anything out because it turns out games are generally pretty slow to make.</p><p>However, I also genuinely like being in touch with people who like my games or are interested in games in general. And I’m concerned about the sustainability of social media platforms, which have come and gone over the last decade, while email always remained. So, I’d like to take a real crack at communicating through here going forward.</p><p>Starting tomorrow I’ll begin sending out regular newsletters under the theme of “Game Musings” - thoughts on game design, development, and games in general. I’m still learning how to better my practice every day, and it’s hard to feel like I know more than anyone else. But I’ve also found that I enjoy the opportunity to put my thoughts down, and even when I’m reading something I “already know,” it’s enlightening to see it re-framed from someone else’s perspective or to see how they arrived at that lesson. I’m inspired by <a href="https://www.youtube.com/@sora_sakurai_en">Masahiro Sakurai’s “On Creating Games” series</a> - but I especially want to focus on the lessons that are more unique to my games and what I can share from my own journeys into the design mines.</p><p>I’m going to strictly categorize anything I release through here, so if you only want to get news and updates on games, or news and updates only on specific games, you can <a href="https://greglobanov.substack.com/account">manage your subscription here.</a> Down the road this list will be a way for me to talk about my secret upcoming project, too. (!!!)</p><p>Thank you for your interest in my games! I love making them and talking about them and I only get to do it thanks to the support of many people. I’m excited to be in touch more.</p><p>-Greg</p>